Update APM > Connect Logs and Traces > .NET documentation (#6510)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/connect_logs_and_traces/_index.md

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab ".NET" %}}

Enable injection in the .NET Tracer’s [configuration][1] by setting `DD_LOGS_INJECTION=true` through environment variables or the configuration files.

The .NET Tracer uses the [LibLog][2] library to automatically inject trace IDs into your application logs if you are using [Serilog][3], [NLog][4] (version 2.0.0.2000+), or [Log4Net][5]. Automatic injection will only display in your logs after configuring your logger to emit MDC attributes (see examples below). **Note**: Automatic injection only works for logs formatted as JSON.

> 

Reviewer: noob question: What is `MDC`?

Author: It stands for MappedDiagnosticsContext, which is a key-value map in the logger that the application can update throughout the program execution. We update the key `dd.trace_id` and `dd.span_id` so their JSON logs can emit the appropriate value at the time of the logging statement.

Reviewer: Thanks. Maybe spell it out or reference it to a (new) entry in the APM Glossary.

Author: I expanded out to use the full word on its first usage. I think that should be sufficient. But since this is a logging concept and not a tracing one I'm hesitant to add it to the APM Glossary.

Reviewer: Sounds good.

> The .NET Tracer uses the [LibLog][2] library to automatically inject trace IDs into your application logs if you are using [Serilog][3], [NLog][4] (version 2.0.0.2000+), or [log4net][5]. Automatic injection will only display in the application logs after enabling `LogContext` enrichment in your `Serilog` logger or `Mapped Diagnostics Context` in your `NLog` or `log4net` logger (see examples below). **Note**: Automatic injection only works for logs formatted as JSON.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The .NET Tracer uses the [LibLog][2] library to automatically inject trace IDs into your application logs if you are using [Serilog][3], [NLog][4] (version 2.0.0.2000+), or [log4net][5]. Automatic injection only displays in the application logs after enabling `LogContext` enrichment in your `Serilog` logger or `Mapped Diagnostics Context` in your `NLog` or `log4net` logger (see examples below). **Note**: Automatic injection only works for logs formatted as JSON.
```

* Configure MDC to use the injected Keys:
  * `dd.trace_id` Active Trace ID during the log statement (or `0` if no trace)
  * `dd.span_id` Active Span ID during the log statement (or `0` if no trace)
* `Serilog` example:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;
using Serilog.Context;

// there must be spans started and active before this block.
using (LogContext.PushProperty("dd.trace_id", CorrelationIdentifier.TraceId.ToString()))
using (LogContext.PushProperty("dd.span_id", CorrelationIdentifier.SpanId.ToString()))
{
    // Log something
}
```

* `NLog` example:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;
using NLog;

// there must be spans started and active before this block.
using (MappedDiagnosticsLogicalContext.SetScoped("dd.trace_id", CorrelationIdentifier.TraceId.ToString()))
using (MappedDiagnosticsLogicalContext.SetScoped("dd.span_id", CorrelationIdentifier.SpanId.ToString()))
{
    // Log something
}
```

* `log4net` example:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;
using log4net;

// there must be spans started and active before this block.
try
{
    LogicalThreadContext.Properties["dd.trace_id"] = CorrelationIdentifier.TraceId.ToString();

>     LogicalThreadContext.Properties["dd.span_id"] = CorrelationIdentifier.SpanId.ToString();

Reviewer: I wonder if there is a way to get the lines within the `try` block to be indented.

Author: I think there is an issue with our Java and C# markdown renderers because this happens with Java too 😢

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab ".NET" %}}

If you prefer to manually correlate your [traces][1] with your logs, leverage the Datadog API to retrieve correlation identifiers:

* Use `CorrelationIdentifier.TraceId` and `CorrelationIdentifier.SpanId` API methods to inject identifiers at the beginning and end of each [span][2] to log (see examples below).

> * Configure MDC to use the injected Keys:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Configure MDC to use the injected keys:
```

* `Serilog` example:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;
using Serilog.Context;

// there must be spans started and active before this block.
using (LogContext.PushProperty("dd.trace_id", CorrelationIdentifier.TraceId.ToString()))
using (LogContext.PushProperty("dd.span_id", CorrelationIdentifier.SpanId.ToString()))
{
    // Log something
}
```

* `NLog` example:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;
using NLog;

// there must be spans started and active before this block.
using (MappedDiagnosticsLogicalContext.SetScoped("dd.trace_id", CorrelationIdentifier.TraceId.ToString()))
using (MappedDiagnosticsLogicalContext.SetScoped("dd.span_id", CorrelationIdentifier.SpanId.ToString()))
{
    // Log something
}
```

* `log4net` example:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;
using log4net;

// there must be spans started and active before this block.
try
{
    LogicalThreadContext.Properties["dd.trace_id"] = CorrelationIdentifier.TraceId.ToString();
    LogicalThreadContext.Properties["dd.span_id"] = CorrelationIdentifier.SpanId.ToString();

    // Log something

}
finally
{
    LogicalThreadContext.Properties.Remove("dd.trace_id");
    LogicalThreadContext.Properties.Remove("dd.span_id");
}
```

> **Note**: If you are not using a [Datadog Log Integration][3] to parse your logs, custom log parsing rules need to ensure that `trace_id` and `span_id` are being parsed as a string. More information can be found in the [FAQ on this topic][4].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you are not using a [Datadog Log Integration][3] to parse your logs, custom log parsing rules need to ensure that `trace_id` and `span_id` are parsed as strings. More information can be found in the [FAQ on this topic][4].
```
